[[cancellingEnrolments]]
== Cancellations, Transfers and Refunds

[[cancellingEnrolments-single]]
=== Cancelling a single enrolment

It is important to remember that within the accrual financial system of
onCourse, that every action has an opposite. When an enrolment is
created, an invoice is generated to the payer. When the payer pays the
invoice, a payment in record is created. If you want to cancel an
invoice or refund a payment, you need to generate an equal and opposite
record. To reverse an invoice, you create a credit note (a negative
invoice) and to give someone back their money, you need to create a
payment out. This section outlines the common processes involved in
creating credit notes and refunds.

If you need to remove a student from a class, due to them withdrawing or
failing to attend, you need to cancel their enrolment. If you wish to
provide them with a credit note you can do this at the time of the
enrolment cancellation.

The first step is to cancel and credit the existing enrolment.

[arabic]
. Find the enrolment in the Enrolments window
. Highlight the enrolment by clicking on it
. Click on the cogwheel in the bttom right hand corner and choose
"Cancel 1 enrolment". This will bring up a dialog with a checkbox
offering to also credit the enrolment fee charged - it is unticked by
default. If you tick this, you will create a create note as part of this
process. If you keep it unticked, you will retain all the student's fees
as part of your business income. 99% of the time you want to create a
credit note. If the student's enrolment is unpaid, the credit note will
pay their unpaid invoice, rather than leaving it as an unpaid debt on
your books.
. In the cancellation window, choose if you want to send the student a
credit note email. If you are have not previously agreed to transfer the
student to another class, or provide them with a refund, selecting this
option will let the student know how much credit they have available
with you for future redemption.
. Hit "Proceed".

This process will cancel the enrolment, and create a credit note in the
system for the value of the existing enrolment. Note that the credit
note will apply to the original payer of the invoice. This may not be
the student who enrolled in the class, but their employer, parent or
other third party. Read the text in the cancellation window to confirm
if the student and the payer are the same or different people.

If the invoice originally issued for this enrolment remains unpaid, the
credit note created will create an automatic contra payment against that
invoice, in effect 'cancelling' it from requiring payment.

If the originating invoice was paid in full, the credit note can be used
to contra pay another outstanding invoice from that debtor, if you
choose. You can manually select this option from the invoice list window
in the cogwheel options.

[TIP]
====
Please note that a payment back to the student will not be automatically
created after cancelling an enrolment. That student might want use the
credit to enrol into another class. Or you may wish to contact the
student and arrange a refund. The next sections explain these options in
detail.
====

==== Outcome deletion on cancellation

While all enrolments in onCourse create outcomes, including those in
non-VET programs, the outcomes that can cause concern for reporting are
those associated with VET enrolments.

During the enrolment cancellation a checkbox is ticked by default that
says 'Delete outcomes linked to this enrolment with status "not set"'.
If you have not given any outcomes a status yet, this will mean all the
outcomes attached to the enrolment will be deleted. This will be
desirable for most types of enrolments, where you do not want to report
the student as having enrolled in this program at all for AVETMISS
purposes. You cannot delete outcome associated with 'success' or
'unknown' tagged AVETMISS exports, and you also cannot delete outcomes
associated with unrevoked certificates.

If the student needs to be reported as a withdrawn student for AVETMISS
purposes, you have two options. Either set the value of the outcomes
before the cancellation process, and they will be retained by default.
Alternatively, you can untick the option 'Delete outcomes linked to this
enrolment with status "not set"' so all outcomes, both set and not set,
will be retained. To avoid AVETMISS errors, you will need to make sure
that any unset outcomes that are retained are given a valid outcomes
status, such as 60 - Withdrawn after processing the cancellation.

Retained outcomes attached to cancelled enrolments are reported like all
other outcomes. If you want to suppress them from all reporting, set the
enrolment to 'Do not report for AVETMISS' within the VET section of the
enrolment record.

==== Charging a cancellation fee

You can also elect to charge a cancellation fee (with or without tax) as
per your college policies. The difference between the fee paid, and the
cancellation fee charged will be available as credit to the student, or
can be refunded to them.

Note that if you charge GST, this amount will be added on to the value
you specify e.g. in the screen shot below a $20 plus GST fee has been
charged, totalling $22.

You can select to have this administrative fee deposited into the income
account of your choice. By default, the income account associated with
the enrolment income line will be selected. Any GST component will be
credited to the GST account.

image:images/cancel_enrolment.png[ Cancelling an enrolment and charging
a cancellation fee ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

==== Cancelling an enrolment paid for by a voucher

On occasion, you may have cause to cancel and enrolment that was
originally paid for by an onCourse voucher. If this is the case, a
warning will appear in the cancellation window to advise you that a
credit note will be made for this student, just like for any other
cancelled enrolment. There is no automatic 'crediting' of their original
voucher.

If you have a business rule that states that students who paid with
vouchers can not access a refund, then use the credit note to purchase a
new voucher for the student that they can again redeem.

In the example below, the enrolment fee of $264 was paid for partially
by a voucher ($200) and partially by cash ($64) - this can be found by
looking at the original invoice for the enrolment.

When the enrolment is cancelled and the credit note created, I could
then purchase another $200 voucher for the student with the credit note,
leaving them with $64 in general credit, that could either be used
towards another enrolment or refunded.

image:images/enrolment_cancellation_with_voucher.png[ Cancelling an
enrolment that was partially paid for with a voucher
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[transferringEnrolments]]
=== Transferring an enrolment

If you are planning of transferring an enrolment, you can do this from
the enrolment list view. This is similar to the 'cancel enrolment'
process with the addition of opening Checkout at the end of the process,
pre loaded with the student, payer and course details, allowing you to
make a speedy transfer of the student to another class.

Highlight the enrolment you want to transfer, then go to the cogwheel
and select the option 'Transfer an enrolment'. Once you have done this a
popup will appear advising you what is going to happen. You then have
the ability to delete outcomes linked to this enrolment with the status
"not set", this option is marked as default. You also have the ability
to do the following things related to the invoice or invoices attached
to this enrolment:

* Create a credit note to reverse the enrolment fee to the payer - this
is marked as default.
* Charge the payer an administrative fee of your choice - you can also
choose if it includes GST and what account it gets recorded against.

[NOTE]
====
You can only transfer one enrolment at a time.
====

image:images/transferring_enrolment.png[ Transferring an enrolment
,scaledwidth=90.0%]

Once you have checked what you need to and pressed 'Proceed', a
pre-populated checkout window will then open with the student's and
payer's contact details along with the course from the 'transferred'
enrolment. Select a new class, then ensure the correct credit note is
being applied to the new enrolment in the Payments section by clicking
on the 'previous credit'. If a credit note was created for the transfer
and it is being applied then the payment method should appear as 'No
Payment'.

image:images/transfer_enrolment_QE.png[ Transferring an enrolment in
checkout ,scaledwidth=80.0%]

[[cancellingEnrolments-creditNote]]
=== Creating a manual credit note

On occasion, you may need to create a credit note of refund for a
student without using the enrolment cancellation process. This may be
because you wish to offer the student a credit to apply to further
training (perhaps there was problem with the class they attended),
because they purchased another product outside of the class enrolment,
or because you created a credit note for the wrong amount during the
enrolment cancellation.

Before you can issue any type of refund, you must create a credit note.
You can create a credit note manually in the invoice window. Note that
this process is not necessary if you create a credit note during the
enrolment cancellation process.

The quickest way to create a credit note to fix an error is to find the
original invoice, duplicate it and reverse it.

[arabic]
. Reversing an invoice manually allows you to make an adjustment
(partial reversal) or complete reversal to an invoice created in error.
Begin by opening the invoice window and locating the invoice that is
problematic.
. Single click on the invoice, and from the cogwheel select the option
'Duplicate and reverse invoice'. A new manual invoice/credit note window
will open.
. This new credit note will contain all the same invoice lines as the
origional invoice line, but with each line item reversed. Remove any
invoice lines you do not want to include in this credit note.
. To adjust the value of a remaining invoice line or charge the reversal
to a different income account, click to expand it. You can make changes
to any of the fields available in the box.
. Optionally link the reversal back to it's original course-class code
to deduct this amount from the class income. This will also make the
invoice show in the class budget tab.
. Repeat the process for each additional invoice line you want to
reverse.
. Remove the check box from the 'send email' option if you do not want a
copy of this adjustment to be sent to the payer.
. Ensure the balance of the new invoice/credit note is as you expect
before choosing save. You can not edit the invoice/credit note after
saving it.

image:images/reversed_invoice_for_credit.png[ Creating a credit note by
duplicating and reversing the values of the original invoice
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[arabic]
. Begin by opening the Invoice window. In the bottom right hand corner
is a plus button. Click it.
. In the new Invoice record window, type the name of the contact you
wish to give the credit note/refund too. The contact needs to already
exist within onCourse.
. In the invoice lines section of the window, click on the '+' button to
add charges/credits to the record. Give your item a title, select the
general ledger income account it will be debited from, enter the
appropriate negative amount in the 'Price Each Ex Tax' field. Ensure if
you are creating a credit note that the value has a minus sign in front
of it.
. Enter any other relevant information and save the credit note. You
will now see in the list view window an unbalanced invoice for a
negative amount. This is the credit note.

image:images/Manual_credit_note.png[ Creating a manual credit note
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[cancellingEnrolments-Discounts]]
=== Manual discounts after enrolment

Sometimes students enrol in classes and pay the full fee, and after
enrolment they realise a discount needs to be provided as the student
was eligible for a reduced enrolment fee.

In onCourse, when a discount is issued the COS account Discounts Given
is credited and the chosen income account is debited.

To create a manual discount, follow the steps above to issue a manual
credit note, but enter an amount in the Discount Each ex tax field. This
will create a credit note, but add the cost of the discount to the COS
account, just like if it was taken during the enrolment.

Please note that discounts processed manually will not be linked to the
class and will not show in the class budget, unless you add the link
back to the class in the invoice line.

[[cancellingEnrolments-usingCredit]]
=== Using the credited amount as credit towards another enrolment

Contacts with credit will appear in the invoices window as 'unbalanced'
invoices, showing with a negative balance. The next time the contact
enrols, or pays for another student's enrolment, they will automatically
be offered their credit to use towards their fee payment in the checkout
process.

This information will show in the Payments section of the checkout
window next to previous owing as a minus amount. The amount due for
payment will automatically adjust.

image:images/credit_note_qe.png[ A student enrolling in a class with a
credit note of $132 automatically applied to their balance
,scaledwidth=80.0%]

[[cancellingEnrolments-paymentReversals]]
=== Payment reversals within the payment in window

If you processed a payment in record in error, i.e. recorded an EFTPOS
payment that failed to process through your EFTPOS terminal, and want to
reverse the payment to set the invoice back to unpaid, you can do this
in the Payments In window.

To reverse a payment, it first of all must be unbanked. Some payment
types are set to bank automatically on creation. If your payment is
banked, double click on the payment in record and removed the date
banked date, then save and close the record.

Your payment in is now ready to reverse via the following steps:

[arabic]
. In onCourse go to "Accounts" then "Payment In".
. Highlight the payment in record to be reversed.
. Click on the cog wheel and select "Reverse payment".
. Click reverse of the new pop up window to confirm you want to the
record to be reversed.
. A new negative payment in will be created of the same payment type as
your original payment, and both payment lines will have the status
REVERSED. If the original payment was already marked as banked, then
this reversal process will cause it to be unbanked.
. The banking deposit window will show both halves of the reversal. You
should bank them together so they balance each other out.

image:images/payment_in_reverse_payment.png[ View of the payments in
window when trying to reverse a payment ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[TIP]
====
Only 1 payment In item can be reversed at one time and the date of
reversal will be set as today's date
====

image:images/payment_in_reverse_payment_confirmation.png[ Confirmation
window that pops up when trying to reverse a payment
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[cancellingEnrolments-PaymentOut]]
=== Refunding a student via Payment Out

If you wish to give a contact back their money, you need to create a
credit note first, and then a payment out record. You can return cash to
the payer, write a cheque, or if they have paid by a credit card through
onCourse (not via an EFTPOS terminal) you can automatically reverse the
payment back to their card. Manual credit card reversals can also be
done through an EFTPOS terminal, but you will need to contact the payer
to get their card details first.

[TIP]
====
If you refund a fee via an EFTPOS terminal, you will still need to
record a payment out entry within onCourse, simply select payment type
'EFTPOS', even if the reversal was to a credit card. It's the method
that is important to record here, not the card type.
====

[arabic]
. Go to the Invoices window and single click on the credit note you want
to apply a payment out to. Clicking the + button directly on the
Payments Out window will also re-direct you to the Invoices window.
. From the cogwheel choose 'apply payment out'. This will create a new
Payment Out record
. The Payment Out window will open displaying the new record, the
contact name will be pre-filled
. Continue with selecting the refund type from the drop-down box, and
type in the amount to be refunded. NOTE: if the type chose is Credit
Card, you must also choose the payment that is being refunded from the
drop down box list of previous payments made by the listed contact
. Select a credit note to apply the refund to. Refunds must always apply
to a credit note, otherwise the system will not allow it to be
processed. The refund amount must be less than or equal to the amount in
the credit note selected.
. Hit Save to process the refund. If there is an error, or if the bank
declines the refund for whatever reason, you'll be notified via an error
message.

image:images/apply_payment_out_from_invoice.png[ Selecting a credit note
to process a payment out against ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

image:images/payment_out_via_credit_card.png[ Selecting the credit card
transaction to be refunded from the drop down list ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

==== A few notes on onCourse credit card reversals

onCourse does not store credit card numbers. What it does store is a
transaction reference number supplied by the bank. This transaction
reference number allows you to reverse up to the original amount paid
during the transaction. This means you can refund the payer with
complete confidence that the payment is being returned to the original
credit card that paid for the enrolment.

There are some limitations that you need to be aware of however:

{empty}1. Credit card transactions are only available to reverse up to
three months after the initial date of purchase. An attempted refund to
a transaction older than this will fail.

{empty}2. You can only refund UP TO the original amount of the
transaction. You can not refund the student more than they paid per
transaction. For example, if two $100 enrolments we paid for in separate
credit card transactions by the same contact and both cancelled and
eligible for a refund, you would need to process two payments out of
$100 each, once against each transaction.

{empty}3. If the credit card you are attempting to refund has been
cancelled by it's owner, or expired, the attempt to refund it will fail.
You will need to contact the student and arrange an alternate refund
method.

image:images/accounts_paymentout.png[ Creating a payment out record for
a refund processed ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[cancellingEnrolments-cancellingAClass]]
=== Cancelling a Class

If your class is not financially viable, or needs to be cancelled for
other reasons, onCourse has the tools to allow you to cancel the
enrolments, notify the students, refund the students or provide them
with credit notes, and use their credit to book them in to another, or
the next available class.

Before you cancel the class, you may wish to print a record of the
enrolled students, via a report like a class roll or student contact
list so you can annotate their preference of refund, credit note or
transfer.

There is an optional script you can enable to automatically notify all
students enrolled in the class that their class is no longer running as
scheduled. If this script is enabled, it will contact the students at
the end of this process and there is no option to prevent the message
from sending on a class by class basis. See below for more information
regarding enabling and disabling the script.

To cancel the class, select the class in the classes window and from the
cogwheel option in the bottom right, select "cancel class". There are a
couple choices to make in this window:

[arabic]
. Create credit note to reverse the enrolment fee - this is always
checked and cannot be changed. This will notify you how many credit
notes will be created.
. Send credit note email (ticked by default) - this sends the credit
note details created by the first step to each payer of the enrolment,
advising them of the credit they now have available to use towards
another enrolment, or request to be refunded.
. Create credit notes to reverse invoices manually (ticked by default) -
if you have manually created and linked additional invoices to the
class, these will also be reversed

image:images/cancel_class.png[ Options available when cancelling a class
,scaledwidth=80.0%]

Once a class is cancelled it will appear greyed out the class list view,
and be available in the core filter 'cancelled classes'. Cancelled
classes that were visible on the web will be removed.

A cancelled class can not be 'un-cancelled'. However, should you need to
reinstate the class, highlight your cancelled class and from the
cogwheel option choose 'Duplicate 1 class' moving the class forward by
zero days (essentially making another copy of the class with a new class
code, but all the other details the same). This will not re-enrol the
previously cancelled students... should you wish to do this you will
need to enrol them again in the new class as per the usual processes.

To prevent large scale errors, cancellations of classes are not
available for bulk processing. You will need to cancel each class
individually.

==== Scripts to automatically contact students and tutors when a class is cancelled

Two scripts and sets of email templates are available by default in
onCourse to contact the students enrolled and the tutors assigned to a
class when it is cancelled.

The 'Cancelled class notice for tutor' must be enabled to automatically
contact tutors via the 'Tutor notice of class cancellation' email
template.

The 'Send class cancellation' must be enabled to automatically contact
enrolled students via the 'Class cancellation' email template.

It is important you read, and possibly customise, the text of these two
sets of email templates before enabling the scripts as the wording must
be consistent with your college policies regarding cancelled classes,
refund options and credit notes.

If you adjust the wording of any of the email templates, be sure to
adjust the plain text and HTML versions in the same way.

The student notification email can also be sent manually from the
enrolment window. Highlight the enrolments you wish to send the message
to and choose send email from template > Class cancellation from the
cogwheel options.

image:images/class_cancellation_email_template.png[ Default email
template sent to students when their class is cancelled
,scaledwidth=80.0%]

==== Reporting on cancelled classes

Advertising classes, taking enrolments and payments and then having to
cancelling the class due to insufficient enrolments or change or
circumstance is a real cost to a training organisation.

From a business perspective, rescheduling a class to a future date is
far more advisable than cancelling a class, but sometimes a cancellation
will still be necessary. As an organisation, should you wish to
understand your cancellation rates and 'lost' potential income, a report
called 'Cancelled classes count' is available from the class list of
reports.

Begin by selecting the core filter 'cancelled classes' to show only your
cancelled classes in the list view. Then search or highlight the classes
in the range you wish to report on. Once you have selected the classes,
click the Share button > PDF > Cancelled classes count.

This report will show you the enrolments that were in the class prior to
the cancellation and the income that had been collected.

image:images/cancelled_classes_report.png[ An example report showing the
potentially lost income and displeased students resulting from cancelled
classes ,scaledwidth=80.0%]

[[cancellingEnrolments-Transfers]]
=== Student Transfer Questions

If you wish to transfer a student, first you need to cancel their
existing enrolment, then enrol them into a new class.

Student transfers need to be done one student at a time. Using the
transfer wizard option outlined above will make this process fairly
quick, ensuring the previous payer and class are pre-selected for you in
checkout,

==== What if the value of the new enrolment is more expensive than the old class or less expensive?

As onCourse tracks the amount owing for the student, no money is lost by
the system by cancelling and refunding. If the student has been given
credit from their previous enrolment for $100, but the class you are
transferring them into costs $120 you can either:

[arabic]
. Do nothing and checkout will request payment for the additional $20,
which you can collect via all the usual payment methods available
including credit card
. Choose to manually discount the enrolment in checkout by $20, allowing
their credit of $100 to cover to apply leaving the account with a
balance of $0.

If their new enrolment is less expensive than their previous class, you
can choose to keep their credit on file indefinitely to apply to a
future enrolment, or provide them with a refund for the credit remaining
once you have processed the new enrolment.

==== Why can't I just edit the existing enrolment?

onCourse tracks enrolments and financial data in a way which leaves a
complete audit trail. So at any time you will be able to see all the
enrolment history for every student, including enrolments they have
withdrawn from. This is very important for financial auditing and system
security reasons which especially when several staff might be making
changes or looking at the history in the system.

Furthermore the refund/checkout process makes the work flow clearer when
the new class has a different cost to the old. The operator is
explicitly prompted to collect an additional payment or retain part of
the credit note. By then applying an additional charge or discount,
general ledger adjustments are kept accurate and clear.

==== How can I fix a mistake I made where I charged the student the wrong amount or credited a credit note in error?

Remember that the opposite of an invoice is a credit note. If the
student owes you more than you originally charged them, create a manual
invoice for the difference. If you charged them too much in error,
create a manual credit note for the difference. If you want to check the
balance of a student's account, go to the contact window and look at
their finance tab. This will show all invoices, credit notes, payments
in and payments out at the current balance of their account e.g. do they
owe you money, do you owe them money, or is everything square?

You can also use the contra pay feature to use the balance of a credit
note to 'pay off' an outstanding balance on an invoice. Select the
credit note in the invoice window, and using the cog wheel option
'Contra Invoice..' locate the invoice you want to pay. This only works
for credit notes/invoices for the same contact.

==== How can I use one contact's credit to pay for another student's enrolment?

If the contact in credit wishes to use their credit towards another
person's enrolment, follow the steps for
link:3rd Party Payments[3rd Party Payments], ensuring that you select
the contact in credit as the payer.
