[[gettingStarted]]
== Getting Started

[[gettingStarted-onCourseInterface]]
=== How to get around the onCourse interface

[[gettingStarted-gettingAround]]
==== Welcome to ish onCourse

Welcome to ish onCourse. To help you use onCourse comfortably, this
section will demonstrate the various windows, lists, records and other
icons you'll see. onCourse is designed to be and flexible and easy to
use, and you can have it set up to help you complete your tasks.

onCourse is customisable, so you can tweak the windows and layout for
your own use. onCourse will open using the last layout used as your
preference the next time you open it.

[[gettingStarted-homeScreen]]
==== The onCourse Dashboard

The dashboard is the opening window of onCourse; it is the first thing
you will see on your screen after you successfully login. The dashboard
is made up of a three-column view window with a collapsible, global
navigation quick access column containing two sub-tabs on the left
(Favourites & Latest Activity) Enrolments & Revenue in the middle, and
onCourse news on the right. There is also a logout button, a button to
change your visual themes and, in some cases, and an Upgrade to onCourse
Pro button for anyone using the free version of the software.

Columns can be resized by hovering your mouse over one of the cut-off
lines, then clicking and dragging either left or right to decrease or
increase the size of the column. You can also resize the window by
hovering your mouse over the bottom-right corner, or the left or bottom
edges of the window, then clicking and dragging to resize it. The global
navigation column can be collapsed by clicking the 'x' in the top-left.

image:images/dashboard_new.png[ The onCourse Dashboard
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

===== Global Navigation

This is the left most column that appears on the dashboard. This column
can also be accessed in numerous other windows in onCourse, allowing you
to quickly access any part of the application in just a few clicks.
Click the burger icon in the top left to display the column if it's
hidden. Click the 'x' to collapse it.

image:images/global_nav_column.png[ The global navigation column in the
Classes window ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

====== Favorites

Favourites is the best way to gain one-click access to almost all the
different areas of the application. Initially, Favorites will only show
Checkout (Quick Enrol), however if you click the All button it will
change to show all the available windows and any on-demand scripts you
have available. If you hover your mouse, you'll see a heart icon appear
next to it. Click it to add that window to your Favorites window, and
click it again to remove it. Click 'Save' to save your changes.

Checkout (Quick Enrol) will _always_ appear in Favourites.

image:images/dashboard_quickaccess.png[ The Favorites column on the
dashboard ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

====== Latest Activity

This section will save and then display a history of the most recent
records you've interacted with and their list views, including during
previous logins, acting as a quick way to revisit screens you were just
using. You can click any of the displayed windows or records to go
directly to it.

image:images/dashboard_latest.png[ The Latest Activity column
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

====== On Demand Scripts

On Demands Scripts appear only for admin users, and can be triggered
manully from here. They will appear here when three conditions are met:

[arabic]
. The script is set as on demand
. The script has no related entity
. The script is enabled

You can learn more about scripts in general in our
link:scripts.html[scripting chapter] here

image:images/on_demand_scripts_dashboard.png[ On Demand scripts in the
dashboard view have the small file icon next to them. You can also see
the Favourited windows with the 'heart' icon. ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

====== Find anything...

At the top of the Dashboard, you'll find a powerful search box called
Find Anything. Here you can find all manner of data in onCourse and have
it accessible at your finger tips with only a few keystrokes. Simply
type in what you're looking for, be it a contact's last name, a course
code or even an invoice number and the search results should populate as
you type, filling out with any matching result.

The results should in order of newest to oldest record.

Feel free to experiment with what you can search for, it covers _a lot_
of data!

image:images/find_anything.png[ Find Anything will help you find almost
anything within onCourse quickly ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

===== Enrolments & Revenue

This column will give you a simple, graphical representation of your
recent enrolments and revenue from the past four weeks in an
easy-to-read graph. As well as the visual graph, you'll also see the raw
numbers of enrolments and revenue, as well as a breakdown of the number
of courses you have set up in the system.

The course breakdown will show you the last courses enrolled in, the
courses with the highest number of people on a waiting list, the number
of courses open for enrolment, and a detailed look at the number of
courses currently classed as in development, cancelled, commenced and
completed.

image:images/enrolments_revenue.png[ The Enrolments & Revenue Column
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

===== onCourse News

This section shows the latest posts in the onCourse blog, and will also
be updated with news about everything onCourse.

image:images/dashboard_news.png[ onCourse news will update every time
you log in to the application ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

===== Themes & Log Out

image:images/themes_and_logout.png[ The Themes and Logout icons.
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

In the top-right of the Dashboard there are two new icons, Themes and
Log Out. Log Out is self-explanatory, click this to log yourself out of
the system and return to the main login page.

Themes will allow you to select a visual theme for the application from
those that are currently available, Light, Dark & Monochrome. This
setting is saved for each user, so if multiple users use onCourse on the
same computer, it will remember their preferred setting.

The current available themes are:

* *Light* - the standard orange & tan theme you see throughout most of
the screenshots in this manual.
* *Dark* - A dark background with light fonts
* *Monochrome* - A light theme that's mostly while backgrounds with dark
text

image:images/dark_theme.png[ The Dashboard as it looks with the Dark
theme ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

image:images/tag_colours.png[ The Tags window using the Monochrome theme
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

image:images/high_contrast.png[ The High Contrast theme
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[gettingStarted-listView]]
==== List View

onCourse's list views appear when you open a window. For example, if you
click on "Class" on the home screen a list view will be opened showing a
list of the current classes in onCourse. This list is filtered by core
filters that by default, hide classes that are complete or cancelled. In
the header bar of the window you will see how many records are
displaying in the list based on any filters or search options running
e.g. Classes (38 shown of 267).

* Will display columns relevant to the window you've opened. Select a
record by clicking on it, or select multiple records by holding shift
and clicking on each.
* Add new records by clicking the + button.
* Column size can be adjusted by clicking and dragging the edges of a
column from side to side. You can also customise the columns that appear
by clicking the 'eye' icon and selecting your preferred columns.
* Filters can be applied in the left-side column.
link:tagging.html#tagging-filter_tool[Learn more about creating these
filters using Tags.]
* You can sort columns by clicking their header. You can sort by
multiple columns by holding down the shift key and clicking each
columns. The sort will prioritise based on the order of the columns you
click.
* List views offer a two-column and three-column view. The three-column
view will give you a detailed look at a specific record, while the
two-column view will give you a better overview of more data.
* Advanced Search will let you find records using a combination of
conditions. You can learn more about Advanced search in our
link:search.xml#search-advanced[Search chapter].

image:images/3_column_view.png[ The Qualifications page using a
three-column view ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

image:images/2_column_list.png[ The Qualifications page using a
two-column view ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

Within the two-column view you can customise the columns visible to you
by clicking the eye icon that appears, and then selecting the columns
you want to be visible.

image:images/column_select.png[ The column select pop-up visible in the
two-column view. ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

===== Help icon

This circular question mark icon can be found all throughout onCourse,
and when clicked, will open up the relevant section of the user manual
for this window in your web browser.

image:images/find_in_manual.png[ The help icon ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

==== Searching in List Views

Advanced and simple searches are also available from the list view, and
all record printing or exporting happens from the list view.
link:search.html#search-listView[Learn more about searching here].

==== Adding and removing records in List View

The list view is also where you can add and delete records. On most list
views, you will see both an add (+) and remove (-) symbol. Click on the
add symbol to create a new class and fill out the fields and options
fulfill the criteria needed for that particular record.

To delete a record, highlight the record you want to remove, click on
the remove button and the record will be deleted. Some records in
onCourse can not be deleted because they have formed relationships with
other onCourse records, and it doesn't make sense to be allowed to
delete half of a record relationship. E.G. if you try to delete a class
with one or more enrolments in it (even if those enrolments have been
cancelled), you will get a message like the one below. In this instance,
you would need to cancel the class instead of deleting it.

image:images/immutableClass.png[ Trying to remove a class with an
enrolment ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

However, if you tried to delete a class without any enrolments, you will
see a message like the one below. Once you select 'delete' the record
will be permanently removed from the database.

image:images/removeClass.png[ Trying to remove a class with no
enrolments ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

===== Printing and Exporting from the list view

You can print a report PDF or export CSV from any list view by selecting
the records you'd like to include, then hitting the Share button. You
can then select the type of file you want to print, the template and the
background.

To learn more about the specific types of files you can print, click
link:reports.xml#reports[here for PDF reports] and
link:importExport.xml#importExport-Export[here for CSV exports].

image:images/listViewIcons.png[ Records highlighted and ready to print
or export ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[gettingStarted-cogwheel]]
=== Cogwheel special functions

The cogwheel is a powerful and very useful tool in onCourse, as it can
execute a range of complex tasks on groups of records that would
otherwise take a while to achieve manually.

The cogwheel appears on most screens in onCourse, and the options that
appear under it will largely be contextual to the screen you're viewing.
You can manually execute scripts, duplicate classes and courses, send
messages to contacts, add or remove classes from your website and whole
lot more.

To use the cogwheel, highlight a record on the window you're viewing,
then click the cogwheel icon to see your options.

[[gettingStarted-recordView]]
=== Record detail view

The onCourse record view appears once you open (double-click) on a
record in a list view. It is how you edit things like contacts, courses,
classes etc and contains tab groups. Depending on the records you're
viewing, the information displayed and how its shown can vary a lot.

To see a record view, go to a window like "classes" and double click on
a record in the list view. The screenshot below shows you what to expect
in a typical class record view, remembering this varies depending on
what kind of window you are in. All windows are laid out similarly in
onCourse, with tabs to group related data and navigate inside the
record.

image:images/recordTabs.png[ A typical tab layout in an onCourse record
view ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

But the class record view alone is not enough to get an idea of how tabs
work, throughout this documentation, there are detailed explanations of
what each record view tab means, for example see the
link:classes.html[Classes chapter] to learn about class record view tabs
in detail, or see the link:tutors.html#tutors-recordTabs[Tutors chapter]
to learn about tutor record view tabs.

In a record view, you will see these buttons on the bottom:

* Next: If you press this, the very next record in the list will load
its data into the record view, this will basically close the record you
were just looking at and replace the data with the next record in line.
Note that this could take a few seconds as it is bringing up a lot of
data from the record. It's a faster way than closing the current record
view and opening another record view. If you have made any changes to
the record, you will promoted to save before moving forwards.
* Previous: Like the "next" button, pressing on the previous button will
load the previous record or the record before the record you are
currently viewing. You may be prompted to save first.
* Cancel: After clicking on this button, you will be asked if you want
to discard changes or save changes. Discarding means you are not saving
you changes on closing. This will only occur if you have made any
changes, otherwise the window will just close and you'll return to the
list view.
* Save: This button will save your changes to the record and close, it
won't ask you for anything unlike the "cancel" button. When you close a
record view, you will returned to your previous list view.

image:images/cancelButton.png[ If you make any changes to the record,
you will see this dialogue ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[gettingStarted-openRelatedRecords]]
==== Open related records

The open related records icon will appear in carious windows throughout
onCourse. This little icon is very useful, as it opens the record in a
new browser tab. The best way to define it is to give you an example of
what it is used for:

* If you are confirming class details for a student on the phone, they
may want to know more about the units of competency assigned to the
course. This little icon will appear to the right for the name of the
course, simply click, check the course VET details in the window that
pops up, and choose cancel when you have completed viewing the record.
The screenshots below illustrate this process.

image:images/openRelatedIconImage.png[ The "open related record" icon
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

This icon is actually very small in the onCourse interface, so we blew
it up a bit to get an idea of what you are looking for in onCourse. When
you see this icon, click on it to open the related record. For example,
if this icon is near a students name "John Smith", then click on it and
"John Smith" record will appear for you to edit.

image:images/openRelatedIcon.png[ The "open related record" icon on the
right hand side of the field name ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

This is an example of the open related records icon in action, as you
can see it is small and to the right of the row.

==== Mandatory fields

If you try to save a record that contains an empty field that has been
set as mandatory, the Save button will appear with an exclamation mark
in it, and when clicked, will scroll you to the field in question so you
can enter the data before moving on.

You will not be able to save and continue before adding valid data to
the field.

image:images/mandatory_fields_error.png[ The Save button showing there's
some information missing, and the offending field's highlighted in red
,scaledwidth=100.0%]

=== Offcourse Error

If you try to navigate to a page in onCourse that doesn't exist, you'll
see the below error window. Click the Dashboard link to go back to the
dashboard.

image:images/offcourse.png[ You have gone offCourse ,scaledwidth=100.0%]
