== Sales

[[sales-navigating]]
=== Navigating the Sales list window

The Sales window displays all the products, vouchers and memberships
that have been sold. To open the sales window, type 'Sales' into the
Find Anything search on the dashboard, use the dashboard favourites
link, or in the nav menu, click Activity > Sales.

image:images/Sales_list_view.png[ List view of sales for memberships,
products and vouchers ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

The Voucher Email can be sent for one or more vouchers using the
cogwheel icon > send email from template > Voucher email.

[[sales-Memberships]]
=== Memberships

To open a memberships record simply double click on a record in the
list, which will open a new window.

* General - this tab allows you to change the expiry date (prior to the
membership expiring). This tab also show information about who purchased
the membership; on what day; when it's valid from; the purchased price;
and the status of the membership.
* Redemption - this tab shows all invoices where the membership was used
as a payment method during enrolment. Double clicking on an item in this
list will open the related membership, where you can see the specific
membership redemption information in the payment panel.

image:images/Purchased_memberships_edit_view.png[ Edit view of a
purchased membership ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[sales-cancelMemberships]]
==== Cancelling Memberships

To cancel a purchased membership simply highlight the membership you
want to cancel, then click on the cogwheel and choose the option 'Cancel
sale'. Once you have done that a sheet will pop down with the option to:

* Create a credit note to reverse the sale fee (this is checked by
default).
* Retain an admin fee and apply it against a certain account.

image:images/cancelling_membership_sale.png[ How to cancel a purchased
Membership ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[sales-Vouchers]]
=== Vouchers

To open a voucher record simply double click on a record in the list
with the Type 'Voucher'.

* General - this tab allows you to choose who the invoice gets sent
through to if redeemed and allows to change the expiry date (prior to
the voucher expiring). You would usually only enter data in the 'send
invoice on redemption' field if you wanted the invoice to be sent to
someone other than the student on redemption, i.e. the employer who
purchased the voucher. If you leave this field blank, the invoice will
go the payer of the enrolment who redeems the voucher.
* Redemption - this tab shows all invoices where the voucher was used as
a payment method during enrolment. Double clicking on an item in this
list will open the related invoice, where you can see the specific
voucher redemption information in the payment panel.

image:images/vouchers/voucher_window_general_tab.png[ View of a voucher
record ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[sales-cancelVoucher]]
==== Cancelling Vouchers

To cancel a purchased voucher simply highlight the voucher you want to
cancel, then click on the cogwheel and choose the option 'Cancel sale'.
Once you have done that a sheet will pop down with the option to create
a credit note to reverse the sales fee.

[NOTE]
====
If the voucher has been partially redeemed you will get a red message
notifying you this, as shown below.
====

image:images/cancelling_voucher_sale.png[ How to cancel a purchased
Voucher ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[sales-Products]]
=== Products

Unlike the purchased Memberships and Vouchers, you cannot open a
purchased product record.

[[sales-cancelProducts]]
==== Cancelling Products

To cancel a purchased product simply highlight the product you want to
cancel, then click on the cogwheel and choose the option 'Cancel sale'.
Once you have done that a sheet will pop down with the following
options:

* Create a credit note to reverse the sale fee (this is checked by
default).
* Retain an admin fee and apply it against a certain account.

image:images/cancelling_product_sale.png[ How to cancel a purchased
Product ,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[[products-delivered]]
==== Setting a products status to delivered

You can set the status of a product to delivered from the sales list
view. This can be done by highlighting the product -> click on the
cogwheel -> select the option 'Set to delivered'.

image:images/Product_status_delivered.png[ Setting a products status to
delivered ,scaledwidth=100.0%]
