[[smartandSkilled]]
== Smart and Skilled

[[intro_smartandSkilled]]
=== What is Smart and Skilled?

Smart and Skilled is a state based funding program provided by the NSW
State government and administered by State Training Services. Details of
the program are available on the Smart and Skilled Website
https://smartandskilled.nsw.gov.au/for-training-providers

This funded training activity uses a State based variation of the
AVETMISS standard to report and reconcile data for payment to training
providers. It is important to ensure you set up your onCourse records
correctly to export your data in the correct format to receive prompt
payment for your training delivery.

The Smart and Skilled contracts require you to lodge your compliant
training files (NAT Files) every 28 days. This is known as progressive
or ongoing reporting. This type of reporting is designed capture
progression information about a student i.e. commencement, progression,
and eventually, their complete qualification or skills group.

State Training Services will pay a percentage of the total contract
amount at key points in the reporting, such as


. Commencement - the enrolment is reported with a commitment ID and at
least one outcome reported as 70 - Continuing Enrolment.
. Progression - one or more claims paid when the enrolment is reported
with required milestones (i.e. started and completed outcomes). Please
refer to Smart & Skilled Operating Guidelines for details, different
qualifications have different progression milestone and payment amounts.
NOTE: The milestones include those who withdrew after they started their
training, and you may be able to claim progression payments when the
student withdraws.
. Completion - the enrolment reported with a final status for all
outcomes and a complete record in the NAT00130 file. Completion payments
are only paid if the student has been issued with the qualification, and
not if the student is withdrawn.

Key differences when using progressive reporting are


. You are expected to report all the outcomes in the qualification with
each batch of NAT Files, including outcomes that are not yet started or
did not start. e.g. for a Diploma of Business with eight units of
competency, initial lodgement of data will have one outcome as 70 -
Continuing Enrolment, and seven outcomes as 85 - Not Yet Started.
. As the student progresses through the training, their outcomes
statuses are updated. Claims will be paid based on their level of
progression. e.g. for a Diploma of Business with eight units of
competency,the progression claim is paid after move the 4 outcomes are
reported as 70 - Continuing Enrolment and at least one outcome is
reported as 20 - Competent.
. Smart & Skilled reporting does not rely on calendar year. If you don't
report completion or withdrawal data, the student will remain active.

The National AVETMISS reporting specification was originally designed to
report training completion after the fact i.e. at the end of the
calender year, and shoehorning this standard into a continual reporting
framework takes continual effort on the part of STS and software vendors
like ish to find new and creative ways to report your data in a way that
requires the least amount of effort on your part.

==== Smart and Skilled in onCourse - Course set up for reporting

onCourse contains a number of features and functions to smooth your
reporting journey. Many can be set up to help you manage the often
complex requirements for Smart & Skilled reporting.

Ideally, you will create courses for Smart and Skilled enrolments that
contain all the outcomes for the qualification or skill set in the
course level. This will then mean you have only one enrolment to report
for each student, and that single enrolment will contain all the
outcomes for the student's funded course.

Some providers will choose to make multiple courses for reporting their
Smart and Skilled students for operational reasons. In those instances,
the Commitment ID and Funding Source will need to be added to every
enrolment that contains outcomes for the student. These enrolments may
represent clusters of outcomes, or single outcomes.

The instructions given in this documentation assume that one enrolment
per student is the norm, but you can adapt these instructions as needed
to your environment.

==== Setting up Reporting for Skills Groups

Skills Group are special 'made up' Skill Sets or mini qualifications
that have been invented by STS to allow funding for clusters of units
under the Smart and Skilled funding program.

onCourse includes by default all official training package and
accredited course qualifications from Training.gov.au, but not the
Skills Groups. The Skills Groups codes are created by STSOnline on an ad
hoc basis, they need to be manually entered in the onCourse
qualification database as you receive the funding contact and before you
try to report the student.

*It is important you do this as early as possible in the process as so
not to hold up your reporting.*


. When you receive a Skills Group contract, it will include a code like
SG00001234
. In onCourse, go to the Qualifications screen and click the + button to
create a new record
. The first drop down box is the Type field. Select 'Skill Set'.
. Fill out the remaining fields with relevant details; Level, Title &
National Code are mandatory fields that must be filled out.
. Click Save.
. Once saved, it will be available for you to add to your course on the
VET tab national code field
. Make sure you tick the option 'Satisfies complete qualification of
skill set' to ensure the data is correctly reported for these students
as an enrolment in a mini qual, rather than a standalone set of units.
. Add the units the Skills Group funding covers to the course and save
the course

IMPORTANT: If you don't have the Skills Group added to onCourse when you
set up the course, you can still set up the course and enrol the
student. The Skills Group code and tick box can be added later, after
enrolment if needed. All this information affects is AVETMISS reporting
and Certification defaults.

image:images/smartandskilled_SkillsGroupCourse.png[ Smart and Skilled
Course set up with a Skills Group ]

==== Data Collection Set Up

Data collection rules and forms allow you to define what information is
collected during the online enrolment, application and waiting list
process.

Before you set up your Smart and Skilled courses you may want to
consider if there is a need to set up a special set of forms and rules
for your Smart & Skilled program.

You can create custom fields and forms for using the Data Collection
feature, and assigned them to particular courses, which can assist with
the individual requirements of your contact. You can read more about
Data Collection in the link:dataCollection.html#dataCollection[Data
Collection chapter of our documentation].

==== Funding Contact Set Up

To streamline the reporting process, ensure you have enabled the Smart
and Skilled funding contract.

Smart and Skilled is a default funding contact in onCourse. Instructions
on activating the default contacts are found
link:fundingContract.html#fundingContract[in our Funding Contracts
chapter]. You can also add additional funding contracts if you want to
split your Smart and Skilled reporting into smaller subgroups, managed
by different parts of the business.

==== Course and Class Set Up

There are a few setting you will need to use if you want to take
advantage of the full range of Smart and Skilled features in onCourse.
These features will assist you in collecting the data required and
reporting it in a timely manner. It is expected that you are already
familiar with the standard course and class set up process before you
read this documentation about the specific Smart and Skilled set up
requirements.

===== Course General Tab

Every course in onCourse can be either 'Enrolment by Application' or
'Open Enrolment'. This enrolment type determines how students can
interact with the course on the web. A course that is open enrolment
allows students to enrol and pay directly. A course that is Enrolment by
Application allows for a second level of checks, for example, to check a
student meets the funding requirements, prior to proceeding to
enrolment.

To enable online Eligibility Checks and applications for Commitment IDs
for Smart and Skilled courses, you will need a course for Smart and
Skilled that is set up as visible online and enrolment by application.

If you have Fee for Service and Smart and Skilled enrolments in the same
class, you may decide to complete the eligibility check for each
applicant. This means you will set up the same course for the
qualification or skills set, and have all prospective students apply for
a Smart and Skilled Quote. If your classes are primarily Smart and
Skilled enrolments this is the best option.

Some providers will have a range of Fee for Service and Smart and
Skilled enrolment in the class. If you are providing both you may decide
to have two courses set up, one for Smart and Skilled that is by
application, and one for your Fee for Service class that is 'open
enrolment'. If you do have two courses, you will need to consider your
strategy with classes, and whether you will have lots of classes
available. This is generally more complex than taking all students by
application and providing them with a Quote, and we suggest you contact
our support team to talk through the options before you proceed with
this set up.

Most providers with Smart and Skilled funding for a qualification or
skills set have the course set up by application to give the student the
option to take up the Smart and Skilled funding if it's available to
them. This will allow students to make the decision to take up the Smart
and Skilled funding after they have received the details of the Quote.

If the student is does not wish to accept the Smart and Skilled Quote,
and you can enrolment them as a Fee for Service using the same
application process as the Smart and Skilled enrolments.

image:images/smartandskilledCourseSetUp.png[ Smart and Skilled Course
General tab showing the course set to 'Enrolment by Application' ]

===== Class VET Tab

All Smart and Skilled courses need at least one class to enrol students
into.

If you expect the majority of enrolments to be under Smart and Skilled
Funding, you can make STSOnline (NSW) the default funding contact at the
class. All new enrolments in the class will adopt this default.

If you expect a fairly equal mix of fee for service students and Smart
and Skilled funded students, you can make the funding contract 'Fee for
service (non funded)' and set the funding source for the Smart and
Skilled students at the enrolment level instead.

image:images/smartandskilledClassSetUp.png[ Smart and Skilled Class VET
tab with the funding contract 'STSOnline(NSW)' selected ]

===== Enrolments

After processing the student enrolment in Quick Enrol, open the
enrolment record to add additional Smart and Skilled data.

The field Purchasing Contract Identifier has also been added to the
enrolment general tab to store the Commitment ID for Smart & Skilled
enrolments. All outcomes in an enrolment will be reported with this
Commitment ID.

An email address is mandatory for all Smart & Skilled students. If the
student does not have an email address, or has chosen not to provide
one, onCourse will export notprovided@example.com.

If later down the track the student withdraws or defers their enrolment,
the TNC code can also be entered in this window.

image:images/smart_and_skilled_fields.png[ Red text showing where
specific Smart and Skilled data is recorded ,scaledwidth=70.0%]

[[reporting_smartandSkilled]]
==== eReporting to STSOnline

Smart and Skilled reporting differs from Total VET Activity Reporting in
a number of ways;

* STSOnline requires you to successfully submit a Smart and Skilled
lodgement every 28 days. You do not have report all students data every
28 days, only new data or changes.
* STSOnline expects new activity to be lodged within 28 days the
activity date i.e. if a student starts a new unit of competency that
should be reporting within 28 days of the start date.
* Smart and Skilled claims are paid 6 weeks or 42 days of the successful
lodgement of the data, so it's within your RTO's best interests to do
smaller, more frequent lodgements than to wait for a once a month
process. Lodging every 14 days is ideal.
* Smart and Skilled enrolments can be reported as individuals, groups,
classes, etc. You are not required to report a full batch of data for
each upload.
* Smart and Skilled reporting is progressive rather than by calendar
year. If a student completes and has their final data approved they are
not expected to be reported again in that year. If a student's enrolment
is ongoing then you are expected to report any new activity.

* STSOnline limits you to three uploads a day, so if you need to correct
an error, you may need to wait until the next day to do another upload.
* At the point in time the Smart & Skilled export is run, any outcomes
selected with a start date in the future will export '85 - Not Yet
Started' as the outcome identifier - national, regardless of what has
been set in the database or in the export runner preferences. i.e. you
can choose the option 'export 70 - continuing enrolment for VET outcomes
which are not set' and the override will still apply the 85 code where
appropriate. This is a requirement under Smart & Skilled eReporting
Guidelines,
* If your data set includes a Skills Group code as discussed earlier in
this chapter, a NAT00030A file will be generated, instead of a NAT00030
file. onCourse makes this choice automatically depending on the data set
you are exporting. This is a new requirement under AVETMISS 8. If you do
not export a NAT00030A file where expected, you may have neglected to
check the 'satisfies complete qualification or skill set option' in your
Smart and Skilled skills group course.
* Smart and Skilled enrolment has specific reporting requirements for
cancellations or deferrals which are outline below.

For more information please refer to the "Smart and Skilled eReporting
Technical Specifications and Business Validations" available to
providers on the STSonline provider portal.

[[reporting_smartandSkilledDeferrals]]
===== Deferrals

Student in the Smart & Skilled Program have the ability to defer their
training for up to 12 months. More information on the obligations of
your RTO for deferrals are outlined in the Smart and Skilled Operating
Guidelines under Deferring Students.

To report the Deferred enrolment, you will need to change the outcome
start and end dates to the expected training dates in the future.

In the 'Outcome identifier - Training Organisation' field you will need
to record Training Deferred (D) value for the enrolment.

Deferred Student checklist;


. Change the start and end dates of the outcomes to match the new study
dates for the student e.g. if the student is deferring to 30/03/2019,
their new outcomes start and end dates might be 30/03/2019 - 15/04/2019.
. Go to the Enrolment, and on the General Tab, add D in the field
Outcome Identifier - Training Organisation.
. The Student will continue to be lodged in the NAT File with future
dates and D for deferral during your regular lodgement.
. Once the Deferral dates have passed, you will get errors from the
combination of D and current outcome dates.

[[reporting_smartandSkilledCancellations]]
===== Cancellations

Cancellations under Smart and Skilled have a few rules that a quire
unique. This is because they report all outcomes under the
qualifications, and use continuing lodgement to collect progression
details on outcomes not yet started. This means that if the student does
not complete their training, you need to notify STSOnline of the status
of all the outcomes in the student's qualification.

STSOnline will consider all student continuing students until you report
final data for all outcomes. You must to do this for cancellations
student to finalise your eReporting requirements, and to ensure that you
receive any claims available under the progression claims.

Any 40 - Withdrawn outcome is considered a 'final' outcome for the
purpose of the progression claims, and could trigger a claim of up to
40% of the total funding amount.

Due to the need to ensure the claims are correctly lodged, we recommend
that you have a review of the training engagement in each outcome and
update this in onCourse. Best practice is to report the cancellations
along with your fortnightly lodgement

If the student did not engage in any training, you will need to set
their outcomes status to Did Not Start (NSW:66, SA:@@) in onCourse.

NOTE: STSOnline (NSW) flavour exports will export outcomes set as Did
not Start as 85 - Not Yet Started as per STSonline's requirements. To
report final data for the enrolment, the 85 - Not Yet Stated much be
combined with the TNC. If you have not added TNC then you will get an
error when you try to lodge the final data.

Once the Student's final outcome data is lodged and accepted by
STSOnline, you no longer need to report their data. To suppress the data
from future lodgements, check the option 'Do not report for AVETMISS' on
general tab of the enrolment.

For more information please refer to the "Smart and Skilled eReporting
Technical Specifications and Business Validations" available to
providers on the STSonline provider portal.

Cancelled Student check list;


. Any outcomes 'Not Set' in the need to be changed to Withdrawn - 40 if
the student started training, or Did Not Start (NSW:66, SA:@@) if the
student didn't start training. If the student already has a final
outcome (RPL, Competency, Credit Transfer etc) leave the status as is.
. Go to the Enrolment, and on the General Tab, add TNC in the field
Outcome Identifier - Training Organisation.
. Lodge the Student data and correct any errors.
. Once the cancelled student data is lodged successfully, go to their
Enrolment, and on the General Tab, tick the box 'Do not Report for
AVETMISS'.

==== Exporting Smart and Skilled AVETMISS data

To export you Smart & Skilled related data simply open up the AVETMISS 8
Export window. Set the flavour as STSOnline, select the required date
range and then hit Find to show you the breakdown of what will be
exported. Check the outcomes to ensure none are being included that
should be excluded, and then hit Export.

image:images/export_STSonline.png[ Smart and Skilled Course General tab
showing the course set to 'Enrolment by Application' ]

==== Eligibility Checks and Provider Calculator

onCourse has developed processes that allow you to collect the student's
information and lodge it with State Training Services using the
STSOnline provider portal. You will need to ensure the following set up
at the course level before you can proceed.

===== Update the Terms and Conditions Page on the Website

You will need to ensure you have collected express consent for the
student's data to be used in the provider calculator. To do this, you
will need to update your terms and conditions page on the website to
include the consent to use the data collected in application or
enrolment to determine the student's eligibility where the application
is for a Smart and Skilled program.

Details of the requirement for prospective students' consent are under
Section 6 the "Smart and Skilled Operating Guidelines", with draft
wording provided in Schedule 1 of the same document. The "Smart and
Skilled Operating Guidelines" are available to providers on the
STSonline provider portal.

More information on how to edit your terms and conditions on your
website is
https://www.ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/design/javascript.html#d5e362[located
in the Javascript section of our manual].

===== Creating the Bulk Upload Export


. From the Dashboard, open the Applications window.
. From the Applications list view, sort and filter the list until you
have the applications you want in the batch. Ensure they are
highlighted.
. Go to the Share icon on the bottom right hand of the list view, select
Excel, and the export file "Smart and Skilled Bulk Upload" and click
Share.
. Save the file to your computer.

image:images/smartandskilledBulkUpload.png[Smart and Skilled Bulk Upload
Export]

====== Editing the Bulk Upload Template for Eligibility Checks

The bulk upload template will need to be edited before you can upload it
via the STSOnline provider portal.

Certain fields are mandatory and must be completed for a successful
upload. Some fields are conditional and only need to be completed if
another field has a value. A few fields are optional and do not need to
be completed for he Eligibility checks.

Full details of the fields and their specifications are found in the
"Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data Specifications and User
Guide Multiple Student Process" available from the STSOnline provider
portal.

onCourse has added values where applicable from the student, employer,
course or class and included some default values for fields as details
below, however, the provider will need to confirm that they are accurate
and correct for each upload.

All values in the export will need to be reviewed and verified by the
operators to ensure it's compliant. You should consult the documentation
on the STSOnline provider portal for specific information.

We recommend you download the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator
Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" Table 1
Bulk Upload file and confirm the values you will need to enter with your
compliance team or management before you do your first upload.

Please make sure to check that the dates are formatted as DD/MM/YYY for
all date columns, some spreadsheet programs will change the date formats
when the file is opened.

If you encounter issues with the upload failing or student not being
accepted, you will need to contact Training Market for assistance:
https://www.training.nsw.gov.au/about_us/contacts.html

======= Export values for an Eligibility Checks

.Bulk Upload Export Template Fields for Eligibility Checks
[width="100%",cols="9%,15%,10%,50%,8%,8%",options="header",]
|===
|*Column* |*Column Name* |*Pre-filled by onCourse?* |*Where to locate
the information* |*Location in onCourse* |*Mandatory (M) / Conditional
(C) /Optional (O)*
|A |National_Provider_ID |Yes | |General Preferences |M

|B |Provider_Student_ID |Yes | |Student Contact |O

|C |Enquiry_Or_Notification |Yes | |Default |M

|D |Activity_Period_ID |Yes | |Default |M

|E |Region |No |Refer to STSOnline's
https://www.training.nsw.gov.au/forms_documents/smartandskilled/deliver_training/regions_postcodes.pdflist
|N/A |M

|F |Prog_Stream |No |Refer to Field 6 in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file
in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data Specifications and
User Guide Multiple Student Process" |N/A |M

|G |Nat_Qual_Code |Yes | |Course |M

|H |First_Name |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|I |Surname |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|J |Other_Name |Yes | |Student Contact |O

|K |DOB |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|L |Gender |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|M |Lives_in_NSW |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|N |Residential_Postcode |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|O |Residential_Suburb |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|P |Still_At_School |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Refer to
Field 16 in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled
Provider Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student
Process" if other value needed |N/A |M

|Q |Residency_Status |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|R |Qual_Since_2017 |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|S |Highest_Post_School_Qual |Yes | |Student Contact |C (See R)

|T |Apprentice_Trainee |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field
20 in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|U |Apprentice_Trainee_Type |No |Please refer to Field 21 in the Table
1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process". |N/A |C (See T)

|V |Work_in_NSW |Yes |If no employer listed, the default value No will
be used. |Employer Contact |C (See M)

|W |Employer_Org_Name |Yes |If no employer listed, field will be left
blank |Employer Contact |C (See V)

|X |Org_postcode |Yes |If no employer listed, field will be left blank
|Employer Contact |C (See V)

|Y |Org_subrub |Yes |If no employer listed, field will be left blank
|Employer Contact |C (See V)

|Z |ATSI |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|AA |Another_SS_Qual |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field 27
in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|AB |Disability_Status |No |Please refer to Field 28 in the Table 1.
Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |M

|AC |Disability_Assess_Type |No |Please refer to Field 29 in the Table
1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |C (See AB)

|AD |Welfare_Status |No |Please refer to Field 30 in the Table 1. Bulk
Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |C (See AB)

|AE |Welfare_Type |No |Please refer to Field 31 in the Table 1. Bulk
Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |C (See AD)

|AF |Planned_Start_Date |Yes | |Class |M

|AG |Delivery_Mode |Yes | |Class |M

|AH |LTU_Evidence |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field 34 in
the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|AI |Planned_End_Date |Yes | |Class |O

|AJ |Unique_Student_ID |Yes | |Student Contact |O

|AK |ESP_Client |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field 37 in
the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |O

|AL |ESP_Org_ID |No | |N/A |O

|AM |Client_ID |No | |N/A |O

|AN |Referred_by_ESP |No | |N/A |O

|AO |ESP_Referral_ID |No | |N/A |O

|AP |Confirmed |Yes |Default value is Yes. Cannot upload students if
they do not consent, no value will fail upload. |Default |M

|AQ |In_Social_Housing_Register_Or_Wait_List |No | |N/A |M

|AR |PAS_No. |No | |N/A |M

|AS |Waiver_Strategy |No | |N/A |M

|AT |Fee_Or_Waiver_Code |No | |N/A |C (See AS)

|AU |Training_Location_Postcode |Yes | |Site |C (See AG)

|AV |Training_Location_Suburb |Yes | |Site |C (See AG)

|AW |Training_Location_Region |No |Please refer to Field 49 description
in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
Use STSOnline's
https://www.training.nsw.gov.au/forms_documents/smartandskilled/deliver_training/regions_postcodes.pdflist
for the region code |N/A |C (see description)

|AX |Residential_Address |Yes | |Student Contact |M
|===

======= Export for an Application for Commitment IDs

You can use the same Bulk Upload template to upload your commitment IDs,
however, some of the mandatory and compulsory fields will change.

Certain fields are mandatory and must be completed for a successful
upload. Some fields are conditional and only need to be completed is
anther field has a certain value. A few fields are optional and do not
need to be completed for he Eligibility checks.

Full details of the fields and their specifications are found in the
"Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data Specifications and User
Guide Multiple Student Process" available from the STSOnline.

onCourse has provided the unique student values, course or class values
and some defaults to the most commonly used values included, however,
the college will need to confirm that they are accurate and correct for
each upload. We recommend you download the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
Table 1. Bulk Upload file and confirm the values you will need to enter
with your compliance manager before you do your first upload.

.Smart and Skilled Bulk Upload Template for Commitment IDs
[width="100%",cols="9%,15%,10%,50%,8%,8%",options="header",]
|===
|*Column* |*Column Name* |*Pre-filled by onCourse?* |*Where to locate
the information* |*Location in onCourse* |*Mandatory (M) / Conditional
(C) /Optional (O)*
|A |National_Provider_ID |Yes | |General Preferences |M

|B |Provider_Student_ID |Yes | |Student Contact |O

|C |Enquiry_Or_Notification |Yes | |Default |M

|D |Activity_Period_ID |Yes | |Default |M

|E |Region |No |Refer to STSOnline's
https://www.training.nsw.gov.au/forms_documents/smartandskilled/deliver_training/regions_postcodes.pdflist
|N/A |M

|F |Prog_Stream |No |Refer to Field 6 in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file
in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data Specifications and
User Guide Multiple Student Process" |N/A |M

|G |Nat_Qual_Code |Yes | |Course |M

|H |First_Name |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|I |Surname |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|J |Other_Name |Yes | |Student Contact |O

|K |DOB |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|L |Gender |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|M |Lives_in_NSW |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|N |Residential_Postcode |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|O |Residential_Suburb |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|P |Still_At_School |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Refer to
Field 16 in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled
Provider Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student
Process" if other value needed |N/A |M

|Q |Residency_Status |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|R |Qual_Since_2017 |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|S |Highest_Post_School_Qual |Yes | |Student Contact |C (See R)

|T |Apprentice_Trainee |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field
20 in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|U |Apprentice_Trainee_Type |No |Please refer to Field 21 in the Table
1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process". |N/A |C (See T)

|V |Work_in_NSW |Yes |If no employer listed, the default value No will
be used. |Employer Contact |C (See M)

|W |Employer_Org_Name |Yes |If no employer listed, field will be left
blank |Employer Contact |C (See V)

|X |Org_postcode |Yes |If no employer listed, field will be left blank
|Employer Contact |C (See V)

|Y |Org_subrub |Yes |If no employer listed, field will be left blank
|Employer Contact |C (See V)

|Z |ATSI |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|AA |Another_SS_Qual |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field 27
in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|AB |Disability_Status |No |Please refer to Field 28 in the Table 1.
Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |M

|AC |Disability_Assess_Type |No |Please refer to Field 29 in the Table
1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |C (See AB)

|AD |Welfare_Status |No |Please refer to Field 30 in the Table 1. Bulk
Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |C (See AB)

|AE |Welfare_Type |No |Please refer to Field 31 in the Table 1. Bulk
Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator Data
Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process" if other value
needed |N/A |C (See AD)

|AF |Planned_Start_Date |Yes | |Class |M

|AG |Delivery_Mode |Yes | |Class |M

|AH |LTU_Evidence |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field 34 in
the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|AI |Planned_End_Date |Yes | |Class |M

|AJ |Unique_Student_ID |Yes | |Student Contact |M

|AK |ESP_Client |Yes |Default value is No. Please refer to Field 37 in
the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
if other value needed |Default |M

|AL |ESP_Org_ID |No | |N/A |C (See AK)

|AM |Client_ID |No | |N/A |C (See AK)

|AN |Referred_by_ESP |No | |N/A |C (See AK)

|AO |ESP_Referral_ID |No | |N/A |C (See AN)

|AP |Confirmed |Yes |Default value is Yes. Cannot upload students if
they do not consent, no value will fail upload. |Default |M

|AQ |In_Social_Housing_Register_Or_Wait_List |No | |N/A |M

|AR |PAS_No. |No | |N/A |M

|AS |Waiver_Strategy |No | |N/A |M

|AT |Fee_Or_Waiver_Code |No | |N/A |C (See AS)

|AU |Training_Location_Postcode |Yes | |Site |C (See AG)

|AV |Training_Location_Suburb |No | |Site |C (See AG)

|AW |Training_Location_Region |No |Please refer to Field 49 description
in the Table 1. Bulk Upload file in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
Use STSOnline's
https://www.training.nsw.gov.au/forms_documents/smartandskilled/deliver_training/regions_postcodes.pdflist
for the region code |N/A |C (see description)

|AX |Residential_Address |Yes | |Student Contact |M
|===

====== Uploading the Completed Bulk Upload Template

Full details of the Upload process, including screen shots and
additional information is available in the "Smart and Skilled Provider
Calculator Data Specifications and User Guide Multiple Student Process"
available from the STSOnline provider portal. A brief summary is
available below, however, it may be amended at any time by State
Training Services.

If you encounter issues with the upload, you will need to contact
Training Market for assistance:
https://www.training.nsw.gov.au/about_us/contacts.html

=======


. Click "Login" in the top left corner of the Training Services NSW
website at www.training.nsw.gov.au
. Click the blue Login button under STS Online.
. STSOnline requires an AUSKEY to login. Select your AUSKEY from the
drop down, enter you password and then click confirm You will be
redirected to the STSOnline secure homepage
. From the homepage, click on the button 'RTO Contract Services'. This
will take you to the Welcome to "Contract Services" page.
. Go to the Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator menu on the left of
the screen and click on "Smart and Skilled Provider Calculator". The
Provider Calculator homepage will be displayed.
. Click on the "Student enrolment notification" option on the provider
calculator page.
. This will take you to a new page. Click on the "Enquiry and
Notification – bulk upload" option.
. You will need to confirm you have express consent, click next.
. Click the "Browse" button located at the bottom of the screen. This
will open a file search of your computer. Locate the Bulk Upload file
and click "Open" then "Upload".
. A pop up menu will appear. Click OK.
. When the processing of the file is complete, the user who uploaded the
file will receive an email advising whether the upload was successful or
unsuccessful. If the upload is unsuccessful, a reason will be provided
in the email.

=======
