[[tutor]]
== Tutor Specific Features

=== Tutor Specific Features

Some features are only visible to tutors, including real time marking of
the attendance roll for their classes.

==== Viewing and Marking a Class Roll

Tutors can access the attendance roll for the class they are teaching
and mark the attendance records in real time, back to your onCourse
database. Only class rolls for sessions in progress, or in the past, can
be marked. Attendance can not be marked before the session has
commenced.

If you have uploaded student profile images in onCourse, their image
will appear along side their name assisting the tutors in verifying
their identify. onCourse is also integrated with Gravatar, so if
students have a loaded a profile image against a Gravatar profile using
the same email address as they use in onCourse, this image will be used.

If a student is under 18, their age will show in brackets next to their
name.

Students can be marked as attended, partially attended, absent or absent
with reason. For both partially attended and absent with a reason a note
can be recorded against the attendance record to provide more
information.

Marked attendance data is then used to calculate the student's
attendance percentage. This percentage may be important for reasons like
CRICOS student visa compliance, or the college's own minimum attendance
requirements in order to be eligible for a certificate of attendance.

The attendance roll can also list contact details such as mobile and
email addresses for students, allowing the tutor to easily contact
students as needed. If this is enabled for students who are under 18, it
will display the name of their Parent/Guardian and their contact
details.

image:images/Tutor Portal Classes Menu Marking Roll.png[ Live attendance
tracking via the skillsonCourse portal ,scaledwidth=50.0%]

image:images/marked_roll_mobile_portal.png[ Marking the class roll on a
mobile device ,scaledwidth=25.0%]

image:images/child_roll.png[ How an under-18 student's contact details
display ,scaledwidth=80.0%]

[TIP]
====
A College can set whether or they wish the Tutor to see the contact
details of the students via the Website CMS under the Site Settings
menu. Whether you want this information displayed is dependent upon the
policies of your business and the management of student records. This
setting is for all tutors of the college.
====

==== Approving Class Information

Tutors can confirm their availability for a given Class using the
Portal. To access any classes that a Tutor has not yet confirmed their
availability for, simply click on the To Confirm menu within the Portal.
There is also a dialog box available to the tutor so they can send in
comments and or suggested amendments to the course copy. College staff
then approve and update the changes via the onCourse Client. Tutors
cannot edit the course schedule or description themselves, since it
needs to be properly approved by College administrative staff.

image:images/Skills_onCourse_Tutor_Class_Approval.png[ Tutors can
confirm availability for a given Class via the Portal
,scaledwidth=50.0%]

==== Viewing Student Results

Tutors have the ability to view a list of results for each unit of
competency for their students. They will be marked either 'Pass', 'Not
Yet Competent' or 'No Result'. The AVETMISS specific value of the
outcome is displayed below this summary label

image:images/Tutor Portal Classes Menu Results Tab.png[ Student
Assessment Sorted by Unit of Competency ,scaledwidth=50.0%]

==== Marking in the tutor portal

You can give your tutors access to mark their student's outcomes in the
tutor portal. This will save time for the tutor and the college, and
will give you fast, accurate results in your onCourse database. The
system is simple and easy to use for tutors, and has the advantage of
updating the onCourse database automatically, so no further staff time
is needed to have up to date results for AVETMISS reporting or
certificate issuing purposes.

If your existing assessment strategy is for tutors to determine
competency and notify the college, this system will be easy for you to
enable, as it simply moves the notification to an online, integrated
platform.

Tutors will be able to mark the students competent, not yet competent,
no result and withdrawn in the portal. onCourse will automatically
assign the correct reporting codes based on the student's enrolment. The
tutor is also be able select the date the outcome is marked as the end
date of the outcome. This will override the existing outcome end date
(or planned outcome end date) in the database.

All other VET Outcomes, such as 51- Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
and 60- Credit transfer (CT) are only available to college staff. This
is to ensure the internal processes are meet before they are entered
into your database.

We recommend you have a policy for the tutors that outlines what
settings you expect tutors to use. Please feel free to send the
link:tutors.html#tutor_outcome_marking[tutor instructions] or edit them
to include your own process with the specific steps and setting for your
college.

.Outcome Values in the portal and their values in onCourse
[width="100%",cols="20%,34%,46%",options="header",]
|===
|Portal |VET outcomes |non-VET outcomes
|Competent |20 - Competent |81 -Non-assessed enrolment - Satisfactorily
completed

|Not Yet Competent |30 - Competency not yet achieved / failed (NYC) |82
- Non-assessed enrolment - Withdrawn or not satisfactorily completed

|Withdrawn |40 - Withdrawn |82 - Non-assessed enrolment - Withdrawn or
not satisfactorily completed

|No Result |Not set |Not Set
|===

This feature is best for colleges that have a periodic, sample based
assessment validation and moderation processes. If your college does
ongoing moderation and validation on each assessment, it may be
worthwhile considering a shift to a periodic system. Ongoing moderation
and validation is a time intensive process that limits access to
solutions that improve your overall efficiency and effectiveness.

Attendance and outcome marking in the portal enables your college to
collect the most update to date and accurate training information from
your tutors, and allows for you to access further benefits when combined
with default scripts.

===== Enabling outcome marking via the tutor portal

You can enable marking in your CMS Site settings. Note that this is a
single setting for the whole business. If this feature is enabled all
tutors will have access to outcome marking. This setting is disabled by
default.


. Login to the CMS
. Go to 'Site Settings'
. Click on 'skillsOnCourse'
. Tick the check box 'Enable outcome marking in tutor portal'
. Click Save at the bottom of the screen

CMS Site Settings to enable tutors marking in the portal

=== Class Resources and Files

Tutor also have access to a list of resources and files for each
individual class they teach. These resources could be teacher training
and assessment resources, marking guides or additional course materials.
These documents are uploaded via the class or course in the onCourse
database with a 'Tutors only' permission.

Tutors can also see documents uploaded with 'Tutors and enrolled
students' permission, that may include documents like learning guides
for students.

image:images/Tutor Portal Classes Menu Resources Tab.png[ Available
teaching resources and documents for a Class ,scaledwidth=50.0%]
