[[useful_information]]
== Useful Information

=== Timetable Information

The user timetable can be viewed as either a schedule list of sessions
or as a month or monthly calendar view. The timetable will display all
classes on a given day, by clicking on a given day the session
information will display at the top of the page, including course name,
room, venue and tutor information. Timetables are applicable either to
classes a student is enrolled in, or to sessions being taught by a
tutor.

The timetable will open to the current date, or next scheduled session
by default. You can navigate between months by using the calendar month
tool on the left panel.

By expanding a timetable session, additional options like 'view course'
and for tutors, 'mark roll' are available.

image:images/Tutor Portal Timetable View.png[ skillsOnCourse timetable
view ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

==== Team Timetables

If a portal user has permission to access the portal on behalf of other
portal useres e.g. employers who can view their employee information,
the timetable view will default to a team timetable view.

This view shows a combined timetable view for all the linked portal
users, so an employer can see at a glance all the sessions their staff
are scheduled to attend, or a parent can see a combined timetable for
all their children's sessions.

The team view can be switched back to an individual view by using the
link on the top of the page.

==== Timetable Subscriptions

Skills onCourse allows both Students and Tutors to subscribe to a
timetable for their classes. To add this Calendar feed to your own
Calendar, simply click on the Sync to Devicelink within the portal
timetable view then add this feed to your own Calendaring software.

Once the subscription has been set, any amendments made to the timetable
for the classes you are either teaching or enrolled in will
automatically flow through to your Calendar. This subscription only
needs to be done once, per user. Any new classes a user enrols in, or
are scheduled to teach, will be included in this subscription.

image:images/PortalCalendarSubscription.png[ URL link generated by the
Portal which can be added to your own Calendar ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

=== Resources

The resources tab is a quick way to navigate to any global resources
that have been added to the portal, for example, documents like Student
or Tutor handbooks, as well as resources for any classes currently in
progress, grouped by their course name.

Resources grouped by class may have been attached at either the course,
class or student enrolment record, and may include documents such as
learning and assessment resources, of completion Certificates.

The display of resources in the portal is based on the permissions set
for the document inside the onCourse application. Documents with the
permission 'Student and tutor' show in the portal for both students and
tutors. Documents with the permission 'Tutor only' show only to tutors,
and are a suitable permission for resources like assessment marking
guides.

The skillsOnCourse dashboard also contains links to the newest resources
added to the portal for the student or tutor.

Resources for classes which are completed can be accessed from the class
record directly. Completed classes are listed in History tab of the
portal.

image:images/portal_resources.png[ Tutors can access detailed class
information via the skillsOnCourse portal ,scaledwidth=60.0%]

=== Results

The results tab of the portal show students the outcome results for
their enrolments. Results may be for VET and non-VET courses.

Some VET courses will show the link to the parent qualificiation, where
the course has been created with this link in onCourse. Other VET
courses, that are module only enrolments will list the outcomes only
with no reference to a qualification.

Results where no value has been set in onCourse will show as 'not
marked' in the portal.

Results where the outcome was successful will show in green font 'Pass'
with the AVETMISS value set in onCourse displayed below.

Results where the outcome was not successful will show in red font 'Not
yet competent' and the AVETMISS value set in onCourse.

image:images/portal_results_tab.png[ List of all class results on the
results tab ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

A student can also view their results for an individual class by
clicking on the 'Results' tab on the class detail view.

image:images/Tutor Portal Classes Menu Result Tab.png[ Students results
within a single class record ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

=== Class information

Classes can be accessed from the link within the timetable, through the
sidebar classes menu or via the History tab.

Students can access up to date class information such as the date of the
next session, venue and room information, as well as a link through to
the class description which outlines the content to be covered within
the class.

The class tab also contains links to the class resources, such as
learning and assessment materials, which have been uploaded to
skillsOnCourse and any outcome results. Students can see their overall
attendance calculation for the class, and the attendance value set for
each class session.

Tutors are also able to access class information, which includes
information about the students enrolled, total number of enrolments, and
can mark the class rolls.

image:images/Tutor Portal Classes Menu Details Tab.png[ Tutors can
access detailed class information via the skillsOnCourse portal
,scaledwidth=60.0%]

[TIP]
====
Despite Tutors and Students both accessing the skills onCourse via the
same log in page, the information displayed to these two groups is
different.
====

==== Class feedback

Students have the ability to rate classes they enrolled in and provide
feedback comments. They can provide a Net Promoter Score response out of
10 (How likely are you to recommend us to a friend) and rate out of 5
stars how they found the Venue, Course and Tutor with a notes field
below for them to add comments. The tutors that are teaching these class
will then be able to see their overall class rating in their portal,
without any information identifying the student/s who provided the
rating. More information about the Feedback function is available in
http://www.ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/latest/manual/feedback.html[the
onCourse user manual Feedback Chapter]

image:images/class_rating_student.png[ Students have the ability to rate
classes they enrolled in ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

==== Getting Directions to a Classroom

The skillsOnCourse class detail view provides a link to Google maps,
providing detailed directions for getting to the venue. Simply click on
the View on Maplink within the Class details view.

image:images/Tutor Portal Classes Menu Location Tab.png[ Students can
access Google Map directions via the skillsonCourse portal
,scaledwidth=40.0%]

=== Subscriptions

A student can view what waiting lists they are on by clicking on
Subsciptions and then clicking Waiting List. This page with allow you to
find out more information about the waiting lists you are subscribed to
along with the option of deleting your name off that list.

image:images/Tutor Portal Subscriptions Menu Waiting Lists.png[ Manage
your Wait List entries,scaledwidth=40.0%]

A student can view what mailing lists they are subscribed to by clicking
on Subscriptions and then clicking Mailing Lists. You have the option of
choosing what method you would like to received the information by
(E-mail, SMS, Post) and which of the designated mailing lists you wish
to subscribe to.

image:images/Tutor Portal Subscription Menu Mailing Lists.png[ Add or
remove yourself from Mailing Lists ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

[NOTE]
====
Students have the ability to manage their unsubscriptions without a
login by adding the follow syntax
$\{contact.getPortalLink("subscriptions")} in email templates. We
recommend you include this link in email templates sent from wait lists.
====

=== History

Students can access a list of their previously enrolled classes, their
financial history and any applications they have submitted in the
History menu.

==== Applications

If a student has submitted a applications that has been approved, they
will have the option to enrol in the class or reject the offer.

image:images/Tutor Portal History Applications.png[ List view of
applications submitted by the student ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

If you want to withdraw the application simply click on the 'Reject'
option. You will then be taken to the page as shown below, confirming
the application has been withdrawn. If you want to enrol in the class
you have applied for, simply click on the 'Enrol now' option which will
take the student to that course page on your website.

image:images/Tutor Portal History Application withdrawn.png[ Application
has been withdrawn ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

==== Classes

image:images/Tutor Portal History Enrolments.png[ List view of
previously enrolled classes ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

==== Finance

image:images/Tutor Portal History Finance.png[ List view of your
Financial history ,scaledwidth=40.0%]

To find out more information about a certain transaction you can click
on one of the record that will in turn open up payment information or a
Tax invoice for the chosen payment, as seen below.

image:images/Tutor Portal History Finance Invoice.png[ Tax invoice
,scaledwidth=40.0%]

===== Making a credit card payment in the portal

A student has the ability to make credit card payments in the
skillsOnCourse portal, so debtors are allowed to make payments against
their outstanding invoices or payment plans. This can be found in the
Finance tab of the History menu. The payment option UI will only appear
if the student has an overdue payment, if not, then this tab will just
show a list of their finanical history. A student has an option to
reduce the amount they want to pay if they can't afford to pay the full
amount at the present time, with a minimum limit of $20 unless the total
overdue amount is less than this. Once the user has defined the amount
they want to pay the student just needs to enter the credit card details
of person making the payment. The user will then get a message notifing
them if the payment was successful or if it failed. If the payment
fails, then a few seconds after getting a notification of this they will
get directed back to the payment page allowing them to try again.

image:images/Tutor Portal Making a payment.png[Making a $550 overdue
payment in the skillsOnCourse portal,scaledwidth=40.0%]

If a payment is due there will be a block on the dashboard notifying the
student of this, as seen below. If they click on the 'PAY ONLINE NOW'
button in the block it will take them to where they can make the
payment, as shown above.

image:images/portal_payment_due_dashboard.png[Payment Due dashboard
block,scaledwidth=100.0%]

[NOTE]
====
If a student has mulitple invoices that are overdue the amount shown
that needs to be paid will be the combined overdue total. If they don't
want to pay the full amount yet, then the payment will be taken off the
oldest invoice first, even if they are on a payment plan.
====

There is also a script in the Automation window called 'send payment
plan reminder' that automatically sends a message 7 days before the
payment due date, on the day the payment is due and every 7 days after
that.

image:images/send payment plan reminder.png[send payment plan reminder
script,scaledwidth=40.0%]

Below is an example of the email that gets sent to a student who is
overdue. There is also a link in the email that allows them to go
straight to the portal, without having to log in, and pay the overdue
balance.

image:images/Payment Reminder Script.png[Payment reminder
email,scaledwidth=40.0%]

=== Certificates in skillsonCourse

Once you have attached the students Certificate to their enrolment
record you will want to be able to direct the student to where they can
find it in their skillsonCourse portal. More information about attaching
Certificates to student records can be found
link:rto.html#rto-attaching[here.]

They can find this by:

[arabic]
. clicking on 'History' tab in the top menu, then on 'Classes' to see
the full list of past classes.
. Under this section the student will see a list of past classes and to
find the certificate for class 'Certificate III in Children's Services
(CHC2-4)' they would need to click on this class in the list.
. Finally click on the 'Resources' option; this option will only appear
if they have something attached to their enrolment record.
. When they have done this the student will be able to download and
print their Cerificate themselves.

image:images/finding_certificate_portal.png[ Where a student can find
their Certificate in skillonCourse ,scaledwidth=40.0%]
